# <div style="text-align: center"><span style="font-size:40px; text-decoration:underline;">Health Connector Analysis</span></div> #

## <div style="text-align: center"><span style="font-size:25px; text-decoration:underline;">Introduction</span></div> ##

<br>Medical bills are the single biggest cause of bankruptcy in the United States, contributing to over 62% of bankruptcies filed in 2007 (Himmelstein). These bills can be very large and are usually unexpected, which means that the best way for someone to protect themselves is to purchase and maintain health insurance. However, in the United States, minority groups are disproportionately likely to to be uninsured or underinsured. Specifically, “Compared to non-Hispanic whites, African Americans and people of Hispanic origin had persistently lower insurance coverage rates at all ages” leaving those minority groups much more susceptible to sudden bankruptcy (Racial and Ethnic Disparities). Bankruptcy is a cyclic problem, which means that these sudden bankruptcies cause long term impacts on the families and communities they affect most. 

<br>Our project partner, DiscoverASG, ran a health insurance advertising and awareness campaign in 2016 targeting latino communities in Massachusetts in an attempt to help close the ethnic gaps in health insurance coverage and prevent cyclic medical debt issues in minority communities. The advertising campaign placed window signs, broadcast TV ads, and radio ads designed to reach latino communities. DiscoverASG has asked us to use the data science methods we’ve learned in order help determine if the advertising campaign was successful in reaching its target communities.

## <div style="text-align: center"><span style="font-size:25px; text-decoration:underline;">Data Reflection</span></div> ##

<br>DiscoverASG provided us with a series of large, widely reaching data sets in the form of excel spreadsheets that covered city and regional specific data about enrollment numbers, advertisement numbers, and community engagement. The degree of the data provided varies greatly, with many data-points being of interest in isolation, while simultaneously being not so useful in the large scheme of things. Nonetheless, the data provided granted us a work space to test and analyze against regional data and determine any key relationships of advertising effectiveness and health care enrollment. One primary data set used in our analysis was the Massachusetts Health Insurance Survey (MHIS), a yearly survey that collects information about health insurance coverage status, opinions on health insurance, income statistics, medical history, and more. The information collected in the MHIS is broken down by region, age, gender, and race. Another primary dataset we used was the Health Connector April Report, which contained the advertising data from DiscoverASG’s aforementioned advertising campaign. That data was broken into two parts, Community Engagement and Digital and Broadcast Media. The Community Engagement section contained information about every window advertisement they placed, including the number of days it was visible and the expected average traffic through the location, then compiled those statistics in order to estimate the number of people reached per city. The Digital and Broadcast Media section contained information about radio ads and TV commercial spots, including the broadcast market reached and the estimated number of impressions. 

<br>However, in a smaller purview of the data, there were small pockets of relationships that were, unfortunately, disjoint from one another; this made analysis that covered a range beyond numerical (i.e. is more socially cognisant, such as gender and racial influences) incredibly difficult. This was mostly due to the fact that there were several key missing “links” between the data provided and the socially self-aware goal the analysis had in mind. The first among these links were the lack of racially-dependent or ethnically-dependent data associated with the advertising efforts. The advertising data, on a whole, influenced a series of regions with varying demographics, and did not provide discriminating details about what portions of the varying demographics received what. And so, without percentages or data points that reflected a specific demographic’s impressions of the advertising efforts, the only basis we could go on for analysing the data was to assume that advertising impression numbers were distributed evenly among the regional population.

<br>Another problematic link issue was the lack of coherence in the advertising data relative to the population data provided. The state health insurance survey provided an extremely large amount of unique data, but most of it proved to be either too specific  or too ambiguous to act as a dimensional feature. Moreover, as the data provided on the survey was non-discriminating in social percentages, the connection to the advertisement data was once more too generic for us to make a proper connection between the social implication of the advertisement and the geographical reflection of it. More specifically, the advertisement data did not tell us who was seeing what, and the survey data did not include information about regional demographics other than some basic percentages about the population of different regions (e.g. some region of Massachusetts being ~20% latino, and so forth). 

<br>Generally speaking, these two issues in particular were the only true standouts, but they were enough to impact our ability to accurately differentiate between the marketing campaign’s effect on different ethnic groups. We asked our partner company if they had any new existing data relevant to their advertising campaign that reflected demographic-specific dependencies on the advertisement, such as knowing what percentage of a TV viewership -- where an advertisement was shown -- had been latino and/or male;  unfortunately, our affiliates notified us that the newest 2018 data was still in compiling process and they had no such data for us to work with. Thus, these limitations on direct links to the data forced us to think a bit differently about how we were to analyze the data going forward, specifically with respect to regional or social demographics. Ultimately, we decided on focusing on the regional data first, as it had the easiest curve in identifying advertisement relationships than the social aspect did. We did not abandon the social or economic ideas altogether, but we did need to table their work until we had a grasp on the regional relationships. 

## <div style="text-align: center"><span style="font-size:25px; text-decoration:underline;">Data Analysis</span></div> ##

<br>From there, our data analysis slowly took place. To begin, we decided upon making an assumption that the data we were going to use was reflective of the general populace, and not specific to certain demographics, such as the latino population. From there, we divided the information up by regions, using a series of features that had a link to the advertising data, such as the amount of TV ads shown within a given county for a given region. Determining the amount of features to work with has been difficult, because the data provided gave lots of features that disjoint from one another and not entirely reflective of the regions. So, expanding the feature space and the amount of existing data rows may help with this. 

<br>For example, in the supervised clustering portion of the assignment, we found that the lack of existing data cells that had the same amount of features in the dataframe led to a lot of overfitting. Specifically, we attempted to amplify the data space by replicating data rows with existing data and then shuffling the data to provide a level of randomization in the training. This however led to an overfitting on the training data, which was reflected in running the Support Vector Machine on the test data. This also meant that running a simple linear analysis of the data space was not doable, as the data space required a degree of regularization on the supervised learning to prevent from this overfitting in a linear setting. 

<br>Going forward, both in the unsupervised and supervised settings, it would best to provide data rows and dimensional features that have more coherent connections to the advertising, as well as potential arbitrarily defined dimensions that can be projected onto a small scale, as they will provide a more accurate and less volatile clustering and classifying run. More to the point, running alternative supervised methods, such as using a Linear Regression, on regional data may provide more insight as to what advertising techniques work the best for what regions. This perhaps is the true crux of the project; finding a recognizable pattern within the data that shows advertising effectiveness.  

## <div style="text-align: center"><span style="font-size:25px; text-decoration:underline;">Conclusion</span></div> ##

In conclusion, our current work on the data has exposed certain flaws in the project. First among them is the lack in advertising correspondence to the general populace data. Secondly, the data space we had to work with was restricted by regions, and the amount of actual data we worked on was limited to very few data points and thus we had to amplify it by replicating. Thirdly, the error reporting and supervised accuracy scores showed some relatively disparate and disjoint plot points. Altogether, this may or may not mean that the advertising data provided had no actual correlating effect on the health care enrollment changes throughout a given time period in the state of Massachusetts. This may be in part because our data analysing patterns were not the most optimal, or it may be because the data provided did not provide proper links to the general regional population information and the advertising. Nonetheless, our usage of techniques learned in class helped recognize some of these potential data relationships, or lack thereof.

## <div style="text-align: center"><span style="font-size:25px; text-decoration:underline;">Works Cited</span></div> ## 

Himmelstein, D.U., Thorne, D., Warren, E., Woolhandler, S. Medical bankruptcy in the United States, 2007: results of a national study. Am J Med. 2009;122:741–746.
<br><a href="sciencedirect">https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0002934309004045</a>

“Racial and Ethnic Disparities in Health Insurance Coverage: Dynamics of Gaining and Losing Coverage over the Life-Course” Population research and policy review vol. 36,2 (2016): 181-201.
<br><a href="ncbi.nlm.nih.gov">https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5370590/</a>

### <div style="text-align: center"><span style="font-size:15px; text-decoration:underline;">Contibutors</span></div> ###
<br>**Nathan Canterbury: nathan25@bu.edu**
<br>**Connor Gilheany: gilheany@bu.edu**
<br>**Dennis Nicolas: dnicolas@bu.edu**
